now Israeli air strikes in Northern
Syria have killed at least 37 people
including military personnel the attacks
targeted the city of Aleppo they
followed similar strikes on the capital
Damascus which wounded at least two
people now the Israeli military has
previously acknowledged strikes in Syria
targeting armed groups backed by Iran
let's get the very latest now on this
from Zen our correspondent in the
Lebanese Capital Beirut who joins us now
uh we talked about the escalation uh in
violence between Israel and Lebanon on
on Thursday Zay we're seeing an
escalation too in Syria what's going
on well Syrian State media is reporting
overnight strikes around the northern
city of Aleppo Syrian State media
blaming Israel saying that a number of
civilians and military personnel were
killed State media did not reveal what
the target was but Syrian activists on
the ground are reporting that a weapons
Depot uh was hit and they're also
reporting that up to 37 people were
killed uh Syrian soldiers but as well as
Hezbollah fighters from the Lebanese
armed group The Lebanese armed group has
a military presence in Syria and some of
their Fighters have been killed in
recent months now in the past few days
we've seen almost consecutive Israeli
strikes in Syria whether in Aleppo
Damascus or dezur in eastern Syria
um Syria Israel really are widely
hitting uh Syria Iranian targets and
Iranian link Targets in Syria in recent
months we're seeing this marked increase
in attacks and of course uh the past few
days Zena have seen strikes in various
parts of the the country I mean what's
what's the bigger picture in terms of
Israel's strategy
here well for years now Israel's
strategy has been and they've declared
this numerous times they want to prevent
Iran from military entrenching itself in
Syria Iran or its allies because Syria
borders Israel they consider this a
security threat but as of late they have
a much more aggressive posture um more
attacks they're even being less
restrained when it comes to casualties
they're going after members of Iran's
revolutionary guards in fact a member of
the Revolutionary guard was killed in
these strikes a few days ago in in their
aour um so this is Israel's stated aim
it is to degrade and weaken Iran in
Syria and they're doing the same in
Lebanon uh they're going after Iran's
Ally hasbalah which opened the front
against Israeli forces to help
Palestinians in Gaza last October and
since then we have seen targeted
killings against Hezbollah Fighters and
commanders in fact just a short while
ago we're getting reports of a a car
being being targeted in in southern
Lebanon and they have been hitting what
they're calling military compounds homes
more often than not their homes because
Hezbollah is a Guerilla Force um and
they've been hitting weapons Depot in
eastern Lebanon very close to the Syria
border so Israel's strategy is to
prevent Syria be becoming an Iranian
base or a rear base for Hezbollah or a
transit route for weapons to reach
Lebanon uh from Iran so this escalation
not just in Lebanon but in neighboring
Syria as well Zod there for us in Beirut
thank you